= nubhub README

== Overview of Code Structure

The code structure for nubhub was already provided by Rails following the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.

=== From Rails

Rails is a web-application framework that includes everything needed to create
database-backed web applications according to the Model-View-Control pattern.

This pattern splits the view (also called the presentation) into "dumb"
templates that are primarily responsible for inserting pre-built data in between
HTML tags. The model contains the "smart" domain objects (such as Account,
Product, Person, Post) that holds all the business logic and knows how to
persist themselves to a database. The controller handles the incoming requests
(such as Save New Account, Update Product, Show Post) by manipulating the model
and directing data to the view.

In Rails, the model is handled by what's called an object-relational mapping
layer entitled Active Record. This layer allows you to present the data from
database rows as objects and embellish these data objects with business logic
methods. You can read more about Active Record in
link:files/vendor/rails/activerecord/README.html.

The controller and view are handled by the Action Pack, which handles both
layers by its two parts: Action View and Action Controller. These two layers
are bundled in a single package due to their heavy interdependence. This is
unlike the relationship between the Active Record and Action Pack that is much
more separate. Each of these packages can be used independently outside of
Rails. You can read more about Action Pack in
link:files/vendor/rails/actionpack/README.html.

==== Description of Contents

The default directory structure of a generated Ruby on Rails application:

  |-- app
  |   |-- assets
  |       |-- images
  |       |-- javascripts
  |       `-- stylesheets
  |   |-- controllers
  |   |-- helpers
  |   |-- mailers
  |   |-- models
  |   `-- views
  |       `-- layouts
  |-- config
  |   |-- environments
  |   |-- initializers
  |   `-- locales
  |-- db
  |-- doc
  |-- lib
  |   `-- tasks
  |-- log
  |-- public
  |-- script
  |-- test
  |   |-- fixtures
  |   |-- functional
  |   |-- integration
  |   |-- performance
  |   `-- unit
  |-- tmp
  |   |-- cache
  |   |-- pids
  |   |-- sessions
  |   `-- sockets
  `-- vendor
      |-- assets
          `-- stylesheets
      `-- plugins

app
  Holds all the code that's specific to this particular application.

app/assets
  Contains subdirectories for images, stylesheets, and JavaScript files.

app/controllers
  Holds controllers that should be named like weblogs_controller.rb for
  automated URL mapping. All controllers should descend from
  ApplicationController which itself descends from ActionController::Base.

app/models
  Holds models that should be named like post.rb. Models descend from
  ActiveRecord::Base by default.

app/views
  Holds the template files for the view that should be named like
  weblogs/index.html.erb for the WeblogsController#index action. All views use
  eRuby syntax by default.

app/views/layouts
  Holds the template files for layouts to be used with views. This models the
  common header/footer method of wrapping views. In your views, define a layout
  using the <tt>layout :default</tt> and create a file named default.html.erb.
  Inside default.html.erb, call <% yield %> to render the view using this
  layout.

app/helpers
  Holds view helpers that should be named like weblogs_helper.rb. These are
  generated for you automatically when using generators for controllers.
  Helpers can be used to wrap functionality for your views into methods.

config
  Configuration files for the Rails environment, the routing map, the database,
  and other dependencies.

db
  Contains the database schema in schema.rb. db/migrate contains all the
  sequence of Migrations for your schema.

doc
  This directory is where your application documentation will be stored when
  generated using <tt>rake doc:app</tt>

lib
  Application specific libraries. Basically, any kind of custom code that
  doesn't belong under controllers, models, or helpers. This directory is in
  the load path.

public
  The directory available for the web server. Also contains the dispatchers and the
  default HTML files. This should be set as the DOCUMENT_ROOT of your web
  server.

script
  Helper scripts for automation and generation.

test
  Unit and functional tests along with fixtures. When using the rails generate
  command, template test files will be generated for you and placed in this
  directory.

vendor
  External libraries that the application depends on. Also includes the plugins
  subdirectory. If the app has frozen rails, those gems also go here, under
  vendor/rails/. This directory is in the load path.

== How to Compile, Set Up, Deploy, and Use nubhub

- Get code
- Run the following commands:
       bundle install
       rake db:create
       rake db:migrate
       mysql -u root db/development < aces.sql
       heroku create
       git push heroku master
       heroku open

The above commands assume that you have mysql and rails installed properly on your system and a working heroku account. 

== Limitations in Current Implementation

Our website currently only has its basic functionality implemented. It allows the creation and validation of users. It keeps track of users, courses for Duke, which users are following which courses, and uploads and downloads of the notes for the courses. We still need to implement the more informational pages of the website: How It Works, privacy, and Contact Us. We also need to implement User Profile editing and the constraint that a user must upload a note before being able to download notes. There are also various bugs in the Heroku deployed site that does not show in the localhost version of the site.  The upload history for a user cannot be accessed on the deployed site. Downloads also do not work on the deployed site.
